Supported architectures page (#907)
huggingface/optimum-neuron: docs/source/supported_architectures.mdx

# Supported architectures

## Training

Training on AWS Trainium instances (Trn1) enables large-scale model training with distributed parallelism strategies.

**Requirements:**

> - Model must be compatible with the Neuron SDK (if small enough to fit in 16GB, training is supported for any architecture that can be compiled)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Model must be compatible with the Neuron SDK. If it is small enough to fit within 16GB, training is supported for any architecture that can be successfully compiled.
```

Reviewer 2: Well, it's the model and the gradients and the inputs/outputs that should fit in the 16GB. Is it worth mentioning it?

> - **Memory constraint:** Each accelerator has 16GB memory for model weights, gradients, optimizer states, and activations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Memory constraint:** Each accelerator has 16GB of memory for model weights, gradients, optimizer states, and activations.
```

        * Or there is a custom modeling implementation adding support for tensor-parallelism and/or pipeline-parallelism for this model architecture in Optimum Neuron.

The following table lists the architectures and tasks with a custom modeling implementation that Optimum Neuron supports for training on Amazon EC2 Trn1 instances.

| Architecture             | Task            | Tensor Parallelism | Pipeline Parallelism | Expert Parallelism   |
|--------------------------|-----------------|--------------------|----------------------|----------------------|
| Llama, Llama 2, Llama 3  | text-generation | ✓                  | ✓                    | N/A                  |
| Qwen3                    | text-generation | ✓                  | ✓                    | N/A                  |

> | Granite                  | text-generation | ✓                  | ✗                    | N/A                  |

Reviewer 2: I would not mention Expert Parallelism, since the supported models do not require it, so it does not make sense to mention it.

## Inference

> The following table lists the architectures and tasks that Optimum Neuron supports for inference on Amazon EC2 Inf2 instances. 

Reviewer: And by the end of the day some large model inference is also recommended to be run on trn1...

<Tip>

If a LLM is listed, e.g. a model with a `text-generation` task, it means that there is also [TGI](https://huggingface.co/docs/text-generation-inference/en/index) support for it.

</Tip>

> ### Transformers

Reviewer 2: we should add Qwen3 for inference

| Granite                  | text-generation | ✓                  | ✗                    | N/A                  |

<Tip>

> If you need to add support for a custom model not listed above, check out our [contribute for training guide](./contribute/contribute_for_training) to learn how to implement custom modeling with distributed training support.

Reviewer 2: we could also ask to open an issue if a specific model is required...

| Yolos                     | feature-extraction, object-detection                                                                                                          |

> ### Diffusers

Reviewer 2: We should add Flux here
